---
id: 6aba4a30-f875-4e93-a7f2-373c9d00fbaa
blueprint: departments
title: Training
overview: |-
  In every key city in Europe there are competent trainers with quality training resources training planters and leaders in their own context and language. (Nice example. Ha!)
  Our Mission The activity of the CTCE Trainer Team is primarily defined in four areas corresponding to the key aspects of our vision. Every key city: We as the CTCE Trainer Team seek to help city leaders move training forward through strategy and coaching calls at least twice a year. We are also available to help leaders think through next steps or deal with particular challenges more often upon their need and request. A Trainer Team point person will be assigned to every person in our European Trainer Community, generally divided regionally among the CTC Trainer Team. Competent trainers: We help those who will be involved in training church planters in their local movement to develop along the CTCE Trainer Development Pathway. This process provides them with relevant theory, experience, feedback, mentor-coaching and support as they grow into being skilled, gospel-centred trainers of adult learners. Quality training resources: We know that even the best trainer needs quality training materials that they can use and contextualise as needed. Expecting each trainer to come up with their own training materials from scratch is burdensome on the trainers and will ultimately create a bottleneck for training. Therefore, the CTCE Trainer Team also works to create and curate various training curricula. We aim for these materials to be clear, simple and multipliable for leaders with varying levels of experience and in a multitude of different contexts. Own context and language: As part of the value of contextualising training, we realise that training must be run in the local languages of its target audience. For this reason, translation plays a vital role in seeing training multiply across Europe. While the on-the-ground work of translation will always be on the local leaders and their teams, we are happy to share our experience in this area.
updated_by: 9a316357-813d-4abb-b784-2db9da7ca072
updated_at: 1705683133
---
We offer direct training of church planters via Intensive and other online courses: GFC, CCGC, and Preaching Lab (in development). However, this is really "filling the gap". Our primary task is to equip trainers who will do the training of planters in their own contexts. For this, we use strategy calls as well as the CTCE Trainer Development Pathway. CTCE Trainer Development Pathway Observation of CTC Training We believe it’s vital for a potential CTCE trainer to experience our approach to training. That’s why observation is the first step in the process. After all, you want to know the end result before you set out on this journey! Experiencing CTC training live is irreplaceable, and many of our potential trainers have already experienced it. But we realize some have not and traveling to do so might be difficult. There are a number of options for observation. Options: Previous involvement in a CTC Intensive, Incubator, etc. Observe a local CTCE network’s training (in your city or another) Come to the Intensive as an observer for a few days IF the first three options are not feasible, observe a recorded CTC training session on the TTT- O Pathwright course. Train the Trainer Online (TTT-O) The TTT-O course is intended to take potential trainers through the key competencies and approaches of CTC’s training. This course consists of six 90- minute facilitated online sessions. Each session has about an hour of pre-session material (videos and reading) and a similar amount of homework.
We’ll meet once every 2-3 weeks in small online cohorts to discuss and practice the concepts found in the pre-session material and debrief the homework. The steps to taking part in TTT-O are below. Application process TTT-O participation Receive access to CTC curriculum and begin leading training Co-training (Recommended) Co-training together with an experienced CTCE trainer can be a great first step as you begin to lead training. It allows for on-the-spot feedback, practical help with leading your session, and real-time modeling and implementation. In an ideal world, we’d love to see every new CTCE trainer be able to co-train, but we realize the training landscape in Europe varies greatly. As co-training would likely require travel, we’ve chosen to make this step ‘recommended’ rather than mandatory. There are a number of co-training options available. Options: In a local CTCE network (in your city or another) Participate in an online CTCE course or the Intensive as a co-trainer Have a CTCE Trainer come to your city (dependent on availability/budget) Mentor-coaching (Upon Launching Training) As you begin doing the work of a trainer, mentor-coaching can be an invaluable resource. It’s intended to help you to discern what you need to facilitate a successful training session, get answers to any questions you run into as you prep your session, and provide valuable debrief after your session that will help you further improve as a trainer. Mentor-coaching consists of a 30-minute call with an experienced CTCE trainer before your session and another 30-minute call after the session. Mentor-coaching should be conducted the first 3 months after you launch training, and may be available for an additional period as needed. The most natural way to get this is in your local network, but we realize many are still pioneering training and may not have an established network in their cities. That’s why we offer two options for this step (points A and B). After the first 3 months of running training, you’ll take a 360-degree evaluation to explore both your strengths as a trainer and discover areas for growth. After successful evaluation, you will be officially certified as a trainer in the CTCE ecosystem. By your local network, Online mentor-coach 360 trainer evaluation Receive certification as a CTCE trainer Ongoing Involvement in the CTCE Trainer Community Being a CTCE trainer means more than just going through the development path and using CTC’s training materials. It means being part of a community of trainers from across Europe. As CTCE trainers, we want to learn from each other, encourage each other, always be growing in our competencies, and work together to see movements of the Gospel multiply in the cities of Europe. To this end, we expect that those who go through the process to become CTCE trainers will remain an active part of the wider CTCE Trainer Community. A lot of that interaction may occur organically among friends—and we hope it does! In addition to those organic relationships, we ask our trainers to commit to the following: Take part in quarterly Trainer Community video calls Look for opportunities to attend other CTCE events (NLF, CTCE conferences, further trainer training like TTT Advanced, etc.)